So in a previous video,
I talked about methods and constructors,
and discussed the methods signature,
which uniquely identifies a method in a class.
An overloaded method is a method
with the same name as another method,
but with a different signature.
In other words, a different parameter set.
And there's no limit to the number
of overloaded methods you can create for a particular class.
So I'm gonna demonstrate overloaded methods by creating
a new class in the methods project
we've worked on previously.
So, let's go ahead and create this.
I'm going to call it OverloadPrimitive.
(Typing on a keyboard)
Right so this code, let's go ahead and have a look,
has a single overload method named bestMethod.
And you can see it's been called there in the main method.
And I've actually created overloaded methods here,
one for each of the primitive data types,
and also one for object as well.
And to call there in the main,
actually just demonstrates a call to each
so let's run that.
Okay there's the output.
Got output from each of the methods.
So looking at the code there,
note that the call to the method with a byte wrapper
you can see the call there on line 19 executed the
overloaded method with an object type parameter
in other words the one down here, so I called
that one rather than calling the one that
we've defined right up here on line 22, the
primitive datatype byte.
So to confirm that I'm going to remove now
the overloaded bestMethod, the object
comment that out, rerun the code
and you can see we haven't got an error
even though we've still got the same calls that
we had in method there specifically on line 19
but it's now actually calling the byte
and we can see that the bestMethod for byte
now showing both for the initial call and
another one down the bottom on line 19.
It's interesting to note if you haven't got
an overloaded version with object, it will call
the right one when you're using wrapper classes
like we're using on line 19.
Now I will talk in depth about how Java chooses
an overloaded method when the type isn't
an exact match which it was in this scenario
but before I do that I want explore what
is not an overloaded method.
So to do that I'm going to create another class
NotOverloaded.
(Typing sounds)
Simple classes as you can see there on screen,
basically just a public method which we execute
in another class and you can see it's creating
a new instance of the NoLoad class on line 16
and then executing the method.
This is going to be our starting point for
exploring what isn't an overloaded method
so I'm gonna run that.
And you can see the output down the bottom of the screen
bestMethod for int.
Right so now let's add some additional methods
to the NoLoad class and we're just replace the
definition of class NoLoad with these new methods.
So you can see by doing that, what I've done is
I've introduced a compile error for each of the
method declarations except one that you can see
on line 19 and looking at the error there
the bestMethod parentheses int is already defined
in NoLoad, all of these methods are considered
to have the same signature and therefore they clash
and aren't allowed.
So I'm gonna revert the code there, let's go ahead
and do an undo, back to how we had it before.
Okay, let's create a new class here, we're gonna
call this one IsOverloaded.
(Typing sounds)
Okay so there's the code, this one's a little bit more
interesting, all the methods are overloaded methods
for bestMethod.
I've already stated that if we have an exact match,
Java will pick that method and we can see that here,
and you can see the various calls that I've got
defined down here in the main method.
So if we run this,
you can see the output down the bottom of the screen there
so it's basically choosing the relevant method
no real surprises there.
Because the parameters match as to what we're actually
trying to call in our main method.
But notice that I didn't test the two
var args methods, so basically these ones
that I've defined up here, the ones here on line 34
and 39, let's now try to test those.
So to do that what I'm going to do is to just
add a call here to IsOverloaded class
n.bestmethod(1,2) and you can see by doing that
we have got an error there.
So I think you'd agree that's pretty interesting,
we get a compiler error, ambiguous methods.
You might have expected that the var args specified
as int would have matched a call using the int literals.
Now we can force which method we want to use
by passing in an appropriate array
to the var args methods, so to see what I mean there
we're going to change this statement, well actually
I'll comment it out and on the next line what
I'm going to do is put n.bestMethod(new int) array,
then add some initializer for the array or
an initializer one comma two and I think that
that's now valid and the same for the integer
Overloaded method so method and it's gonna be
new, an integer array now we want
and add some initializer or an initializer again
and you can see now that that's accepted it
and we can run this and in fact it does work.
All righty.
All right so let's finish the video here,
then in the next one I just want to go over
some of the rules for determining
which overloaded method will be executed
as defined by the Java specification.
See you in the next video.